Welcome to our section on Javascript loops are you tired or are writing the same code over and over
and over and over again.
Well this is your opportunity to get familiar with loops because loops will save you time.
They allow you to loop through irritate through code multiple times and you can specify how many times
you can loop through that code.
Setting up a condition and you get full control over that output so allows you to loop through the number
of times that block of code is going to get executed.
So loops really do save you time because they allow you to execute content as many times as you need
within your code.
We're going to look at the DO loop and as well as the do while loop the while loop and the for loop.
So all of the different types of loops that are available within Javascript the do while loop is a statement
that gets X executed at least once and it's really executed every time that condition evaluates to true.
And there's different cases that you might use one loop over another and this is up to you to decide.
Depending on what is best for your application you can utilize that to all the different loop that you
need in order to accomplish what you're setting out to do within your code.
For loops are definitely the most popular type of loop.
So you going to see those most often used within the code but sometimes they're not the best case to
use within code.
And there's also while loops so while loops can continue to execute while the condition is true.
So for loops as you've mentioned are the most popular format for looping and most used within Javascript
code.
We're going to introduce you to some more exercises so that you can see this code in action and see
how useful it can be when you're writing out applications.
We're going to be building out a calorie counter.
It's going to ask how many of these items that you want to eat is going to tell you how many calories
you're burning using a loop.
There's also nested loops.
So allows you to build more and do even more with looping a loop within a loop looping the child and
then also looping out the parents so you can have full control and loopholed build out tables and a
whole lot more using this type of format and loops.
There's also a stop which allows you to stop the loop and also continue which allows you to continue
looping depending on the condition.
So I'm going to show you these and a whole lot more within this section.
Also adding conditions to loops really allows you to customize that output because remember you can
set in different pieces of code and you can apply different conditions as we saw in the last lesson.
And we're building upon what we've learned in the previous sections.
So we're coming together and we're putting everything together using loops.
There's also different types of loops where we're pairing loops with arrays.
So this is a natural way of getting information as we read through all of the different information
that's contained within the array.
And this really shows the usefulness and the value of loops because we can pull out a lot of information
quickly without having to be very specific because we know with an array it contains information and
is generally ordered information.
So if we go through the index we can pull out that information using a loop.
Also objects objects we saw that they can hold a lot of information and data and we can lose utilize
them with loops to pull some of that information out and utilize it within our code.
We're also going to be building out a shopping list.
So this is going to be a great exercise to get familiar with what can be done with loops and arrays
and how we can really utilize this type of code and the code we've learned in the previous sections
in a more real life example.
And I do encourage you to work alongside and take advantage of all the different challenges that we're
offering within this section to really get familiar with what's possible with loops and what loops can
do in javascript.